Let's get down to the final 3 parts of the launcher development. In the current lesson, our task is to cause damage
when colliding with any object. We will specify the parameters for damage in projectile. It can also be done in
another way, for example, the launcher can be fully responsible for damage and all parameters are passed
to the projectile class in the same way as we pass the shoot direction. Let's create the required property right away: the
first property is the radius of damage. We will apply radial damage, as we have already done
. Name the variable DamageRadius and set an arbitrary value.
The second property will be directly responsible for the number of dmages.
We name it DamageAmount and give it some high value. It's an explosion.
At the epicenter, 50 health points will be taken away from us.
Go to the .cpp file projectile. First, let's include two header files.
We'll need DrawDebugHelpers to draw the sphere and also KismetGameplayStatics to do the damage.
Go to the projectile constructor. Let's set up the collision component.
We have not set any properties for it. To begin with, we will set SetCollisionEnabled
and pass the ECollisionEnabled :: QueryOnly value, that is, we will not have physical
interactions with this collision, there will only be a collision alert.
Further. Let's set how this collision will react to other objects that have
collisions. We will set the same response for all channels. There is a
special function for this called SetCollisionResponseToAllChannels. It takes
ECollisionResponse elements as a parameter. We select ECR_Block, that is, our projectile
will simply be blocked by all available channels. You can fine-tune this
so that the collision reacts differently with different channels, but for now we do not need this.
Let's go to the BeginPlay function. Let's add a check for the collision component. Let's take a look at the new OnComponentHit delegate.
It is called when a collision has occurred with an actor or other components. This delegate is dynamic.
We add it using the AddDynamic macro. The first parameter is a pointer to the current object.
The second is a function reference. Let's write the currently non-existent OnProjectileHit function.
Press F12 on OnComponentHit. The signature of our function must match the signature of the delegate.
So we press F12 on FComponentHitSignature. We copy this long signature.
Go to the projectile header file, to the private section. Let's declare a function.
We write the ufunction macro and insert the signature.
I'll copy the name of the OnProjectileHit function. The return value will be void. Insert the name of the function.
Let's remove the extra commas. This event is passed a bunch of parameters related
to the collision, but when implementing the explosion, we will not use any of these parameters.
Copy the function declaration. Insert into the .cpp file and add the class name before the function.
So, we had a collision. Let's program the logic of this behavior. First, we check the UWorld
pointer for nullptr. We'll need it. And the first thing we have to do is stop our movement.
To do this, the motion component has a function called StopMovementImmediately.
All its functionality lies in the fact that it sets the speed of movement to 0. We did something similar
when our character was dying. We called a function on the character movement component - DisableMovement.
Next, we need to do radial damage. Let's put a comment on MakeDamage.
And at the very end, destroy the actor. That is, call the Destroy function. Thus, the actor
is deleted either by a timer of 5 seconds, or by a collision. Let's go to the launcher class
and set another projectile parameter. Let's define the owner of the given actor. Let's call the SetOwner function
and pass the pointer there, which the GetOwner function returns, that is, in fact, we say
that the projectile owner is also our character, because we have already set the character owner to the weapon.
Therefore, GetOwner will return a pointer to the given character. Let's do damage on collision.
Let's copy the function that we used in the DevDamageActor.
We need to copy the ApplyRadialDamage.
We paste this code.
Let's adapt it. Leave the first parameter unchanged - GetWorld. Next comes the
amount of damage. We have just created the property DamageAmount. The center of the sphere is also located at the location of the actor.
Replace the radius with DamageRadius. It is not necessary to create DamageType for now,
so we can pass the base class UDamageType there. To do this, call the StaticClass function.
Let's format this function because it is getting too long.
Add an empty comment after each parameter //
Press Ctrl + K, Ctrl + D. It became clearer. The next parameter is an array of
actors to ignore when doing damage. We can pass a pointer to our
character, or we can not pass it. It all depends on whether we want to harm ourselves with our own patron.
Let's also create a property for the DoFullDamage parameter.
Let me remind you that this parameter is responsible for whether the damage is done at each point of the sphere in the same way or
will increase uniformly from the surface of the sphere to its radius. And since we are
in the header file, let's also create a property for the seconds in the life of our projectile.
So that there are no magic numbers in our code. Let's call the property LifeSeconds. We also put 5 seconds.
Let's pass this variable to the SetLifespan function. And the last two parameters: one of them is this, a
pointer to the actor that caused the damage. Here we also leave it unchanged.
And instead of nullptr, we can pass a pointer to the character controller. Let's create an additional
function called GetController. We can check whether the GetOwner pointer
is a pawn or not. And if so, return its controller.
This is a groundwork for the future. For this tutorial, we could leave the controller at zero. This is not so important to us now.
But in the future, when calculating who shot whom, we will use a pointer to this controller.
We substitute the call of this function in the penultimate parameter.
Let's draw a sphere that will visualize our explosion.
Before starting the editor, let's take a look at one last point. We can tell the collision component
which actors we want to ignore while moving. The function that adds such
actors is called IgnoreActorWhenMoving. The first parameter is a pointer to the actor.
We can pass a pointer to our owner, that is, to the character. Let's write GetOwner.
And the second argument is whether to ignore it or not. Set to true. In general, the situation that the
projectile will collide with our character is unlikely, but at least this can
happen if we set a very low movement speed for the projectile, that is,
our character will be able to catch up with the projectile. Let's check. We launch the project.
We shoot at the enemy character. We have uniform damage depending on where the
sphere hit, so you need to shoot several times. And we cannot kill ourselves.
And also when we collide with other objects, we have an explosion. Let's check
the damage done to several characters. Copy, paste. We launch and shoot somewhere in the
middle so that the characters overlap with the sphere. One explosion damages all actors
that are in the radius of destruction. We described ourselves a bit when developing weapons. In the BaseWeapon class,
change the VisibleAnywhere property to EditDefaultsOnly, otherwise they cannot be edited in blueprints.
The same is in the rifle class, and in the projectile class for the components we will set VisibleAnywhere
so that everything looks uniform for us. And one more small refactoring. We have essentially
created two families of weapons: one type of rifle weapon, the other a launcher. The launcher inherits from BaseWeapon.
And there is a MakeDamage function in BaseWeapon that the launcher doesn't use because the cartridge
does damage on its own. As I already said, this can be done in another way, but with this architecture,
we do not need this function in BaseWeapon. Let's move it to the rifle class.
Also, don't forget about the function body. We remove from BaseWeapon and insert into the rifle class.
We also transfer the DamageAmount property from BaseWeapon.
The launcher class also does not use this parameter, so we do not need it here.